
The ever-growing scope of extreme-scale supercomputers requires an increasing
volume of component-local metrics to better understand their systemic behaviour.
The collection and analysis of these metrics have become data-intensive tasks in
their own right, the products of which inform system support activities critical
to ongoing operations.  With recent emphasis being placed on topology-awareness
as a step towards better coping with extreme scale, the ability to visualize
complex topology data has become increasingly valuable, particularly for the
visualization of multidimensional tori.  Several independent efforts to produce
similar visualizations exist, but they have typically been in-house developments
tailor-made for very specific purposes; and not trivially applicable to
visualization needs not featured among those purposes.  In contrast, a more
general-purpose tool offers benefits that ease understanding of many
interrelated aspects of a system's behaviour, such as application performance,
job node placement, and network traffic patterns.  Perhaps more significantly,
such a tool can offer analysts insight into the complex topological
relationships shared among these considerations; relationships that are often
difficult to quantify by any other means.

We present TorusVis, a general-purpose visualization tool applicable to a wide
variety of topology-related data presentation scenarios.  Its general-purpose
software architecture lends itself well to rapid prototyping of various data
presentation concepts as well as publishing fully featured visualizations.  We
descibe several key design elements and implenentation strategies, and how they
strike a balance between usability, generality, and performance.  Furthermore,
we present use case studies where the capabilities available in TorusVis aided
understanding of system behaviour in ways not possible, otherwise.

